visit the retro future coda UK to find
all the links you need the Game Boy
Advance SP the console that most of us
grew up with this thing is yes a little
bit on the the lackluster side the
screen is really nothing to write home
about the colours all look very washed
out the actual front light is not evenly
disbursed along the screen because it
just comes from the bottom it's a little
bit poor to say the least for the grand
total of 47 dollars which is about sort
of 38 quid I think you can pick up one
of these a white box with a Game Boy
Advance SP IPS LCD inside it no
soldering required well if you would
like a brightness control switch then
you can solder one wire alternatively if
you have over a hundred bucks to spend
you can buy an OEM backlit Gameboy
Advance SP this is the AGS 101 which
came in loads of different sort of
colours these two have been modded with
new modern shells but they are quite
difficult to find in good condition and
again they're quite difficult to find
for an affordable price so for half the
price of that you can actually get your
own and build it yourself
which is what we're gonna do in today's
video so let's take a quick look then at
the IPS screen and see what it's like I
think this has been made by funny
playing taking a look then at what we
have in here there is a ribbon cable
which yup has the funny blank stamp on
the bottom of it so that's gonna go
through the hinge it's gonna be quite
tricky to to get that through the hinge
but we shall manage and then obviously
we've got the display itself and it
already has the Gameboy Advance SP
screen lens fitted to it now is
everything you can get then for your $47
and then the other things you'll need is
a shell that has been pre-cut if you
don't want to buy the pre-cut one you
can do it yourself this one has not been
done this one has been done you might be
able to see there there's just a sort of
groove missing out of that and that
whole back piece there has actually been
lowered so what we're gonna do then is
start by disassembling the Game Boy
Advance SP so starts off then by
removing the four troweling screws
around the outside there's another one
here and there's a
Philips screw therefore the battery
cover I would definitely advise you keep
the original Nintendo screws they're
going to be a lot higher quality than
anything that's going to come in there
next up we're going to remove this
little try ring screw here underneath
the battery is another try ring screw at
the back here after you've removed all
of those screws you can lift the back
piece off and it should come off like
that you don't need any of these
components if you're going to replace
the shell but if you're gonna keep this
one then just set it to the side without
the shoulder buttons springing out now
we have access to the motherboard so
there's three Phillips screws just here
so once you have removed those screws
just lift open the hinge of the Gameboy
there and you can just pull the board
out very very gently and you'll have
access to that ribbon cable underneath
and then with your fingernail you can
pry the little lock down that's either
side of that ribbon cable lock there and
just like that the ribbon cable will be
free the only other thing we're gonna
need from this is the hinge and
unfortunately to get to that hinge we
are gonna have to disassemble the whole
top screen assembly which is a little
bit of a nightmare but if you have a
replacement hinge or even better buy a
replacement hinge on eBay I'll leave a
link to one of those because they're
like two pounds it will save you the
hassle of removing this screen to remove
the screen find the thinnest flat-head
bit you can find and pry off the rubber
covers doing that will expose a small
try ring screw bit you're going to need
to unscrew that and then do the same to
all of them finally you need to undo the
Philips screw that is underneath the
little ribbon cable flap here just there
and then you can just lift off this
piece the ribbon cable will come out and
that's the bit that we actually need
there this shell is obviously very very
badly damaged for some reason this
plastic is obviously weakened over time
so to remove the hinge pieces what we do
is take the biggest flat-head bit that
we can find and what we're gonna do is
just place it over the little clips that
are holding that hinge in okay and then
you'll hear a little click and the hinge
will sort of go below the level of the
plastic there Oh open the hinge up fully
so that it's fully sort of extended open
and then you can get that piece in there
and just pop them out like that on top
of these little hinges are tiny little
covers just to cover up the top of the
hinge
you can just slide those off so what you
should be left with now is your
motherboard the replacement shell the
screen the battery the ribbon cable and
then all of your hardware from the
previous Gameboy shell and your little
hinges what we're gonna do now is
reassemble the whole thing with the
brand-new screen so what we shall do is
place the screen into the front portion
of the Gameboy shell and it all sort of
holds in there really really nice and
securely and you can see how lovely that
looks right there so that's already
looking good I'm gonna take a small
little double-sided adhesive foam pad
and stick that just here it is advised
that you use double sided tape but I
don't have any so hopefully this will do
next up grab the little motherboard and
ribbon cable and set that down and what
we're going to need to do is just bring
the small piece of the ribbon cable
connector over and pop it down into that
Lego brick connector and then you can
just gently rest it down it will stick
onto the back of your double sided tape
now we're going to need to do is set
this piece down now as I'm pressing that
down there as you can see it's not
closing up on this side of the shell so
I think what I'm gonna do is remove a
bit more of the material from the shell
to try and get that to close together
nicely so roll the little ribbon cable
around and fit the back piece on and
then screw the outside assembly back
together
all right look at that I've just put the
screen protector back over just to
protect that screen but that is the top
half of the Gameboy now reassembled now
we need to put these two pieces together
and secure it together with the hinges
push the ribbon cable through the shell
and the whole thing will just fit
together like a glove
and we need to now put the hinge pieces
back in but before we do that we need to
put the little covers on them press them
in open up the screen fully and then
they will fully go all the way in so
then take the little hinge piece cover
and pop that over and screw it back in
make sure you're using the correct screw
so if you want to have a brightness
switch you can solder a wire to q1 to B
you need to connect it to this pad
that's on the end of the ribbon cable so
I'm gonna do that but if you don't have
a soldering iron and you're not really
too fussed about the brightness control
switch you can skip this step
then just take a little cotton bud with
some isopropyl alcohol and clean up the
flux in the area right and once you've
done all of that you can remove the
piece of cardboard that holds all the
buttons in very conveniently drop your
speaker back in do not forget the
speaker
otherwise you'll be opening it all up
again and set the motherboard down like
that put your three Phillips screws back
into the motherboard make sure as I said
you're using the original Nintendo
screws they're just a little bit better
than the aftermarket ones I find there's
a little small screw thread that goes
just into this slot here in the bottom
of the shell that's just so that the
battery door can screw down and close
just press it in there like that make
sure the power switch is set to OFF and
is corresponding off on the actual
motherboard and then you can just set
that whole piece down and the final
thing to do is chuck your screws back in
I can't wait to see what this thing
looks like I'm also gonna be putting a
new battery in mine as the old one
wasn't really holding a charge for very
long I'll leave a link to that as well
now we can just pop on in Tendo logo
back in lovely stuff and then the final
thing to do is just put the little screw
covers back in here I'm probably not
gonna use these purple ones I don't
think they look very good I think I
actually prefer the look of the pink
ones that came on the game way that we
disassembled it just looks a lot less
obvious and just like that we are done
to test this Gameboy we shall play my
favourite game of all time which is kuru
kuru Curran and as I mentioned not
putting that sticker there makes it look
really cool you can see the actual game
artwork as well this thing is looking
super futuristic I love it the screen
brightness mod is definitely recommended
the brightness of this IPS display is
incredible
the colors immediately look absolutely
stunning I'll put some close-up
comparisons on the screen right now but
immediately
I can notice a big difference one thing
I really want to show you as well
actually is the comparison of the
viewing angles as you can see the IPS
wins every time the viewing angle on an
IPS screen is just ridiculous in fact
there is literally no difference at any
angle that you view it as whereas on
this one huge difference is all the way
through the brightness is well is a lot
brighter there's a whole additional sort
of two steps brighter
I died let me know what you guys think
in the comment section below
check out the description for all the
links that you need I hope you guys have
enjoyed this video if you did and you're
new to the channel leave a like and
subscribe and I'll catch you guys in the
next video peace
[Music]